# Journal Entries 
## Week 1/29
This week Matt, Jensen, and I ironed out who will be working on which sections of the project. We have decied the most logical way to work is to have me work on backend (mostly database management), Matt do data analysis, and Jensen do website visualizations. In addition, we met with Skon and worked on a rough draft [list of requirements for the project](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1XWqd5NIhoF1ryyyDD_2VsPwRrSpgEWXdVBVjxH6XMO4/edit?usp=sharing), as well as finished the [project proposal](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1EHq-PF2LkekZ6_t8fIX1WRgX5D-BSFJQ1DhFqK_1TBY/edit?usp=sharing) and preparing a 45 minute interactive [presentation](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1kZP0jXcm2uxT3m3x_Rm_kB_gCOMG2oKM6gRh_aI8YIw/edit?usp=sharing) to inform our classmates of what we will be attempting to accomplish this semester.
## Week 2/5
I met with Skon on Wednesday to discuss specifics of the project. I've attached my notes from the meeting [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1XKVftr6rIlWVmV-PFqNADGkpmC3KiHxBjyMyz9n8Rs8/edit?usp=sharing). Some things that I will need to think about more post-meeting are:
* What sort of queries need to be performed and in what way can I figure out how this queries interact and optimize search results to minimize querying repetition
* How to **only** access the solar panel data, now that I am aware that it sits on the same database table as an abundance of irrelavent data
* Research more about caching (this is a topic that I have never worked with before) and new tables for site specific data

As of Sunday, Professor Skon has still not been able to get me access to the database, or a subset of the database, due to being out-of-state. Hopefully I will have it by tomorrow Monday, February 12th. For now, I have done some research on MySQL Query Cache feature.
The MySQL Query Cache's effectiveness is very dependent on the type of data and queries being performed. For example, databases that are constantly being updated, such as databases with a time-element, for the most part it is counterproductive to cache the queries performed on that database, since the results from the previous queries will all but outdated. Because the database I will be managing is clearly being updated frequently, I will need to research how to still minimize querying time using caching. I believe this will involve using automatically updating subtables.
